# GenreExplorer

## Overview
GenreExplorer was supposed to be a Django powered app that showed examples of every genre of music that I got from wikipedia. I love discovering new music and wikipedia. I thought that finding artists for each genre I encountered tedious so I decided to build this failed app. I used BeautifulSoup 4 and requests to automatically gather a list of all the genres from wikipedia, the Youtube Data API for retrieving said examples and Bootstrap for the terrible user interface. However, due the number of genres and the Youtube Data API quota limits, the app doesn't work as intended. I was really looking forward for what this app would do but I've disappointed myself one again with another [failed project](https://github.com/Mikerah/HexBin-Quiz).That being said, I still learned a lot from this project and hopefully someone else can implement this idea better than me.

## What I've learned
I had experimented with BeautifulSoup a little before but I never really built anything with it. For this project, I decided to use BeautifulSoup to get more familiar with the library. I also used the requests library as opposed to the standard urllib2 simply because I wanted to try something new. As I've done previously, I used the Youtube Data API for this project. Since I wanted to become more comfortable with using other parts of the API, I decided to use the search and playlist functionality of the API. This is the main reason the project failed. Using search.list() uses up a lot of the quota limit and then repeat that for over 2400 genres of music. This part of the project taught me a lot about unexpected hurdles that may come up during a project and thus I have to plan accordingly. I also learned how to create and A-Z index and have links to other parts of the page in Django. Thus, I again became more intimitely familiar with Django's template language.

## Improvements
As always, there are always improvements to be made in every project. The biggest one I think for this project would be for the web scraper I wrote using BeautifulSoup. I should've included more try-catch pairs and exceptions since the format of wikipedia pages change without notice and all the time. I've also included very specific words that shouldn't be in the list of genres. For example, the pages that contain the list of genres, usually have a next sections part to the page and I would explicitly exclude those portions by looking for specific words like "sections". For all I know, there may be a genre of music with the name "Section" or "Sections" and I've just unknowingly excluded a genre of music or two. Maybe I should have used Scrapy. The other huge improvement that can be made is regarding my use of the Youtube Data API. Since the quota is what is making this app not work, maybe I should use Soundcloud instead or maybe Vimeo or Dailymotion. I could use any site that has music and an API without such quotas. And there are other typical code improvements like clean code and documentation.
